## General Information

SellTech Co and GreenBuy Energy are negotiating a potential sale of a cutting-edge battery optimized for solar parks (power stations relying on a large number of solar panels). This advanced unit is critical for GreenBuy Energy to guarantee a steady energy supply, enhancing the capacity and efficiency of their manufacturing operations and ultimately lowering costs. SellTech Co has invested heavily in developing this technology and optimizing it for peak performance. They are looking to set a strong price point for their new design that achieves higher performance and reliability than products from competitors. Both parties may be willing to reach a deal but must agree on a price. Historically, the relationship between SellTech Co and GreenBuy Energy has been strained due to past disputes over contract terms and late deliveries. Moreover, SellTech Co's products have not always lived up to the company's promises. However, this project is important to both parties and so they are willing to meet and discuss a potential deal.

It has been widely reported that GreenBuy Energy recently paid $1.8 million for a new solar panel system, which was a significant expense. They argue this has set a precedent for what they consider a "fair" price for specialized high-tech energy equipment. Energy storage, they argue, should not be more expensive than the system to generate it. However, the technology differs and there are more competing products for solar panels than for batteries, and so it is unclear how relevant this comparison is.

Market research for similar battery units suggests that companies have paid between $2m and $6m per unit. However, prices and the underlying technology are changing rapidly, and so while these numbers offer some guidelines, it is difficult to make direct comparisons. Industry analysts predict that renewable energy and energy storage markets are projected to be increasing by as much as 3x in the next 5 years. Further, future government subsidies to consumers could spike demand even higher, easily increasing the value of the technology by another $3-5 million.

In unrelated industries, negotiation outcomes for high-tech components have typically seen buyers and sellers settling on prices 30%-40% lower than the initial asking prices.